## DAY 2: WHAT IS MAVEN?
After pushing our code in the github repository, the next step is to buils our source code in an executable format so that our application is up and running and accessible.

Maven is a build automation tool and project management tool. We use Maven to:
- Create the java based project;
- Build and Modify different things inside the project;or
- build and package application so that we can execute the application at anytime.

## Structure of a Java based Project

- scr : this folder contains the main source code of our project
- pom.xml: Files that contains different informations, properties, plugins: to perform different tasks, dependencies about the application. This file can be modified based on the requirements. 
When we run any maven command, it searchs first for the pom.xml file because it contains all the informations to be used for the application (which dependencies, which plugins,...).

## How to create Java based project using maven
it's a task of developpers to create java project
- Go to **start.spring.io** to initialize your project
- select java
- give a name to your project
- choose the dependencies
- download the file and push in your github repository

## Maven Cycle

Maven has 3 lifecycles: clean, default and site
**clean lifecycle**: Delete any build output generated by previous builds by removing the target folder- **mvn clean**

**Default lifecycle**: has 5 steps
 
 1- **Validate**: Validates the project structure and verifies if all necessary information is available. It will search if pom.xml file is here or not - **mvn validate**
 
 2- **Compile**: compile the project source code - **mvn compile**. It will searchs if there is any error on the syntax of the code of the project
 
 3- **Test**: Runs unit test against compile source code - **mvn test**
 
 4- **Package**: Packages the compiled code into a distributable format with all the dependencies (e.g: jar, war) - **mvn package** and the output will be go on target folder
 
 5- **Install**: Installs the packages into the local repository (.m2) for use as a dependency in other projects - **mvn install**
 
 6- **Deploy**: Deploys the package to a remote repository for sharing with other developpers or environments - **mvn deploy** The package will be push to the artifact repository as Nexus (repository for artifact).
 
NB Each command will run the previous one  
 
 **site lifecycle** generates project documentation and reports
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
